service environment variable (#3809)
platformsh/platformsh-docs: sites/friday/src/add-services/clickhouse.md

## Relationship reference

> Example information available through the [service environment variables](/development/variables/_index.md#service-specific-variables)
> or by running `{{< vendor/cli >}} ssh env`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After you've defined a relationship between your service and app containers, {{% vendor/name %}} automatically generates corresponding environment variables within your application container.

Here is an example of information you can retrieve through these [service environment variables](/development/variables/_index.md#service-specific-variables),
or by running `{{< vendor/cli >}} ssh env`.
```

```bash
CLICKHOUSE_PORT=9000
CLICKHOUSE_HOST_MAPPED=false
CLICKHOUSE_USERNAME=main
CLICKHOUSE_QUERY={'is_master': True}
CLICKHOUSE_PASSWORD=ChangeMe
CLICKHOUSE_FRAGMENT=
CLICKHOUSE_CLUSTER=azertyuiop-clickhouse-app-afdwftq
CLICKHOUSE_HOST=clickhouse.internal
CLICKHOUSE_SERVICE=clickhouse
CLICKHOUSE_PATH=main
CLICKHOUSE_PUBLIC=false
CLICKHOUSE_IP=123.456.78.90
CLICKHOUSE_SCHEME=clickhouse
CLICKHOUSE_INSTANCE_IPS=['123.456.78.90']
CLICKHOUSE_REL=clickhouse
CLICKHOUSE_HOSTNAME=azertyuiopqsdfghjklm.clickhouse.service._.eu-1.platformsh.site
CLICKHOUSE_TYPE=clickhouse:23
CLICKHOUSE_EPOCH=0
```

{{% note %}}

> Service information are also available through the [`PLATFORM_RELATIONSHIPS` environment variable](/development/variables/use-variables.md#use-provided-variables)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Service information is also available through the [`PLATFORM_RELATIONSHIPS` environment variable](/development/variables/use-variables.md#use-provided-variables)
```

> or by running `{{< vendor/cli >}} relationships` and can be used to gather service information in your `.environment` file:
> ```bash {location=".environment"}
> export APP_CLICKHOUSE_HOST=$(echo $PLATFORM_RELATIONSHIPS | base64 --decode | jq -r ".clickhouse[0].host")
> ```
> {{% /note %}}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
or by running `{{< vendor/cli >}} relationships`. 

For some advanced use cases, you can use the [`PLATFORM_RELATIONSHIPS` environment variable](/development/variables/use-variables.md#use-provided-variables) to gather service information in a [`.environment` file](/development/variables/set-variables.md#use-env-files):
```bash {location=".environment"}
export APP_CLICKHOUSE_HOST=$(echo $PLATFORM_RELATIONSHIPS | base64 --decode | jq -r ".clickhouse[0].host")
```
{{% /note %}}
```
